[Transcript missing]
So what are we securing?
One of the big things is data,
information, things like credentials,
usernames and passwords to websites
or other applications or assets
on an internal network somewhere.
Also privacy.
Personal information is very
important to keep confidential.
Things like real names, email addresses,
or geographical location.
It's also important to
protect financial information,
which is very attractive to an attacker,
as well as business information
that might belong to a user.
Now, the second category of assets
refers to things that are
intrinsic to a device or a system.
The resources.
Things like its network access.
The bandwidth that a machine has.
Or its unique IP address.
And these are things that are
valuable for botnet activities such
as click fraud or sending spam.
Now, attackers are also interested in new
devices and their new capabilities.
In the '90s when everybody
had dial-up modems,
you had auto dialers.
And as you might have seen in the news,
they might be making a comeback
on some insecure platforms.
Next, attackers might be interested
in very large scale attacks,
harnessing the computational
ability of millions of machines
or their storage potential.
So how do attackers work?
How do they get into systems?
Throughout this presentation,
I've categorized the different attack
vectors into four different parts.
And for each of these,
I'll describe the vulnerabilities and the
defenses that you can take advantage of.
The first is the user interface.
What are the paradigms and what
are the symbols that users are
used to that an attacker can use
to trick a user into performing an
action against their own interest?
What programming errors
exist in an application?
From the fine print of the
CPU instruction set to the high
level design of the application.
What errors allow an attacker
to take advantage of a program
to compromise a user's assets?
How is information stored on a system?
What happens to this information
if that portable device is
lost or stolen or resold?
And how is information transmitted by
your application across the internet?
Now, just as there are many ways to
write a program and there are many
ways to make a program secure,
there are very many ways to make errors.
And some of these errors
translate to security flaws.
Here are some examples.
These are vulnerabilities that
are not specific to a particular
application or a platform.
These are generic attacks that we
see across the software industry.
The user interface level.
You have things like Trojan horses.
from the mythology of the Trojan War.
But in this case,
it might be a file that seems
innocent but might actually try
to compromise a user's system.
Things like phishing attacks
on email and spoofing attacks
where legitimate applications
and websites are impersonated.
And the user interface
should be friendly,
but it should also be secure to
defend against these kinds of attacks.
For code,
you have things like logic flaws,
input sanitization errors,
and memory mismanagement errors,
such as buffer overflows,
or calling a function
pointer on a stale object.
For storage security vulnerabilities,
the physical loss of a device
could represent the complete
loss of all that information.
So what can technology do to make sure
that that information is still safe
even when their user is no longer in the
physical possession of their information?
For transport, how is information being
transmitted securely?
You might be using encryption,
but is it secure?
Who are you encrypting your data to?
Who is receiving it?
So let's start talking about some of the
defenses that I'm going to cover today.
So for the user interface, on Mac OS,
you might already be
familiar with quarantine.
I'll describe that.
And also talk a little bit about
authorization and some of the
improvements we've made there.
The code level.
We're doing all kinds of things to make
exploitation much more difficult as
well as improving our tools to remove
low hanging fruit where possible.
We also provide sandboxing
for damage control.
For storage,
we have strong Unix file permissions.
And we also have technologies
such as key chain,
file vault, and data protection to solve
some of the most difficult
problems with secure data storage.
And last,
I'll talk about some of the great
new things that we're doing for
transport security and some of the
great innovations that have made
their way into Lion and iOS 5.
To put things into context for you,
I have two mockups of some applications,
an RSS reader and a
financial application.
The RSS reader will be used to
demonstrate some of the flaws
at the UI level and the code
category of vulnerabilities.
Whereas the financial application has
some different security needs that lend
well to storage and transport security.
So consider an RSS reader.
It seems pretty harmless.
Doesn't have any passwords.
Doesn't necessarily deal with
any personal information.
In an ideal world,
it wouldn't have any security
vulnerabilities because it
is not a secure application.
doesn't offer security.
That's not the case at all.
An RSS reader actually presents a very
rich attack surface because it has
support for things like HTML5 and all
the rich media that comes along with it.
Movie files and movie decoders and
audio decoders and image parsers and
all kinds of technologies that are
now within reach and triggerable.
And it's network enabled,
so it's receiving untrusted
input from unknown sites.
So this is how an attacker might
actually see the RSS reader.
They're going to look
at the entry points.
They're going to look at the application
itself and the technologies it builds on.
And attackers are going to look
for vulnerabilities in the complex
interactions between these systems.
So,
Atom feeds have support for enclosures.
And enclosures are part of
the specification and they
provide for downloading media.
Arbitrary files that are
stored to a file system.
So files are especially important
when considering user interface
and a secure user interface.
What kind of files can come in?
Are there on-site file types?
The RSS reader also has a URI handler
so that when a user clicks a link,
they can immediately bring up this
application and it's convenient.
But it introduces additional surface
for URI parsing vulnerabilities.
As well as the feeds themselves,
which likely come over HTTP.
So any attacker on the network
could inject data there.
But in addition, RSS feeds aggregate data
from many different places.
So the HTML code in there is untrusted.
So let's talk a little about
user interface attacks.
The Trojan horse.
What do we do to prevent
Trojan horse attacks?
There are two technologies,
or there are many technologies,
but two of them that I'll talk about
today are quarantine and authorization.
And consider an enclosure
that delivers a PDF file.
It looks like this.
Many of you have beautiful icons,
but this attacker wasn't very
creative and they decided to just
reuse the icon for PDF files.
But it's actually not a PDF.
It's a .app.
The extension is not shown.
So when a user clicks on
on this file.
They expect preview to open
up and display their contents.
- But it could actually
be a Trojan horse.
And quarantine solves this
problem by displaying an alert.
It shows the exact information for where
that file came from and at what time.
Quarantine is easy to take advantage of.
All you need to do is enable the setting
in your Info.plist and automatically
you will get some attributes.
Your application's name and the
bundle ID as well as the time.
And then manually you
can set this information.
The exact data URL that it came from
and the site that it originated from.
As well as the type of file it is.
Launch services will
take care of the rest.
When an unsafe file type such as a
.app or shell script is downloaded,
quarantine will block
these kinds of attacks.
Next we have authorization prompts.
And this might be a little
confusing to you at first because
what is the difference between
an administrator user and an
application running as an admin user?
To the system,
we have a root user that has
full control over the system.
And in many places where a
core system change is made,
such as editing a firewall rule or
installing new system-wide applications
or services or a kernel driver.
The operating system prompts
the user for administrator
authorization with a password.
And in Lion, we've improved these.
We've eliminated many of them
where they were unnecessary.
This is to prevent users from
getting too used to typing in
their password unnecessarily.
And we've also simplified them
and clarified their purpose.
All right.
So now let's shift gears and
talk about code vulnerabilities.
So the URI handler and the feeds
actually represent a very wide attack
surface and they can trigger many
components and many technologies
where they can look for parsing errors
and all sorts of vulnerabilities.
They can look for input
validation problems.
Such as taking a file name
from the URI handler and taking
that URI and passing it on
the command line and securely.
An attacker might try to inject
shell meta characters to start
executing arbitrary commands.
This could be triggered from
An arbitrary website.
Or they might look for
memory mismanagement errors.
For example,
one of the image decoders that can
be triggered from HTML might have a
buffer overflow vulnerability in it.
Also going to look for logic flaws.
How does the RSS reader interact
with the operating system and
with things like spotlight?
And what oversights did the programmer
make or the development team make
when building their application?
So here's a simple vulnerability.
This is a format string flaw.
Suppose that the URI handler is
taking this information and passing it
directly to the NS log API function.
This is directly exploitable.
An attacker can take advantage of this by
giving their own format string specifier.
And luckily this problem is easy to fix.
You just add your own format string
and don't allow untrusted input
as the format string specifier.
So an attacker could use the
format string vulnerability
to disclose arbitrary memory.
or gain direct code execution.
But not all bugs are this easy
to fix or that easy to find.
So what I'll be talking about today are
some asymmetric solutions to the problem.
You don't have to match
your attackers step by step.
You don't have to find every
vulnerability they might find.
You can take advantage of the
code hardening mechanisms we have,
the exploit mitigation
technology we have.
That makes exploitation
much more difficult.
You can take advantage of the sandboxing
features we have for damage control.
Let's talk about the
Clang static analyzer.
There are other sessions this week.
What you see with Xcode 4
is even better integration.
The Clang static analyzer will
automatically find many memory
mismanagement errors for you.
Thereby also eliminating a good
portion of security errors.
Our compiler takes advantage of the
open source Fortify source patch.
And Fortify source removes really low
hanging fruit that is too easy to find.
Things like insecure
calls to string copy.
That does not do bound checking.
The way Fortify Source works
is that during compilation,
I just replaced with
more secure alternatives.
The compiler can do this automatically
where it's easy to do so.
Next, we have stack protectors.
And stack protectors are also
inserted by the compiler through
a transformation pass in LLVM.
And the stack protectors make
exploiting buffer overflows more
difficult by inserting a secret
value on the stack that protects the
return address and the save frame
pointer from being overwritten.
Next, we have a number of new exploit
mitigation technologies.
So sometimes code injection
can be really easy.
All an attacker has to do is
figure out a way to get their data
somewhere in executable memory.
For a long time we've had
a non-executable stack,
but on 32-bit processes in Snow Leopard,
we've had an executable heap
and an executable data section.
This made it easy for an attacker
to exploit 32-bit applications.
Whereas on 64-bit applications on Mac OS,
these were non-executable.
So an attacker could not
easily inject code here.
As well on iOS, the code signing policy.
Make sure that that is not executable.
So it's also more
difficult for an attacker.
And in Lion, we've made this better.
Now data in the heap are
no longer executable.
So an attacker cannot inject code easily.
Not every security solution is
perfect and this can still be bypassed
with return oriented programming.
Return oriented programming is all
about reusing existing code that's
already in the address space of the
program for performing arbitrary actions.
And return oriented programming
specifically refers to reusing
the epilogues of functions to
perform arbitrary computations.
But you could also just reuse existing
libraries and existing API calls.
Here you have an example of one of
the first iPhone exploits that took
advantage of vulnerability in TIFF that
was discovered by Tyvus Ormandy.
And although you had
no way to inject code,
you could just build up stack
frames that reuse the existing
API calls to perform actions.
One way to mitigate this is
address based layout randomization.
What you will see across our
platforms is that we have address
based layout randomization.
This was introduced in iOS 4.3.
It is in line.
This makes remote exploitation
more difficult for an attacker.
They don't know where
the data structures are.
They don't know where their input is.
They don't know which functions to call.
without an information leak.
So to get these features on,
all you have to do is build online.
It's not an SDK setting.
It doesn't matter which
APIs you're building for.
Just the toolkits that are online,
I mean the tool chain,
will take care of this.
The linker adds headers to the
Mac OS header in the binary.
That sets these settings.
So now when you build online,
32-bit applications by default will
be built as position-independent
executables so they can get
address-based layout randomization.
It's also true for non-executable data.
You also get some additional heap
hardening and the stack protectors.
And if you want, you can enable stack
protectors for all functions,
not just character buffers,
functions with character buffers,
by passing the fstackprotector all flag.
So if you want to check to see if you're
not sure if you're getting this feature,
you can do so using O tool.
And you can check the macro
header using this and you
want to look for the pie flag.
And that's it.
You have address-based
layout randomization.
So let's talk about sandboxing.
So sandboxing is a very powerful
construct for damage control.
So if an attacker is able to
find an exploit and get code
running in an application,
you can provide damage control so
that they can't break out into other
applications or get users' data.
And you see this on iOS,
where a compromise on an application
doesn't necessarily compromise all the
user's data and other applications.
And you saw this on
Leopard with Seatbelt.
And we have a number of
built-in profiles there.
So you could put your application
in a sandbox and remove its
ability to access the Internet.
So you could run code
from arbitrary places,
not worry about its
ability to connect out.
Or you could use the
pure computation sandbox,
which is really tight.
So an application in the sandbox
can't touch the user's files,
can't talk to the network,
can't talk to IOCAD or other resources.
But we made this even better.
And in Lion,
we're introducing the App Sandbox.
The app's sandbox is
designed for security,
but it's also easy to take advantage of.
It's also been designed to really work
with users to give them a clear idea of
how their data is flowing through the
system and going in between applications.
So that they can feel safer
when using your applications.
In addition,
we provide fine-grained access
control with entitlements that
allow you to specify exactly what
resources your application should have.
There are two sessions
today in this room.
This is a two-part session
actually and it's at 2:00 p.m.
The first part will be the
introduction to the app sandbox.
The second part will be about the
app sandbox and the Mac App Store.
You can learn about the new
requirements for your applications.
So let me tell you a little
bit more about sandboxing.
The concept is that if an attack comes
in and compromises your application,
not all of the resources that that
application could have access to
previously are immediately compromised.
You can isolate your application from
the system to prevent the compromise
of all these other components,
the user's files, network access,
communication with drivers.
You can even take this a step further.
You can build your application in such
a way that has privilege separation and
the more security critical components,
the ones that deal with
users' data and users' files,
are isolated from the more vulnerable
components that have to do a lot of
file parsing and a lot of data parsing
and work with a lot of untrusted input.
And you can even isolate these
from the network components.
So the app sandbox provides great
damage control by limiting the effect
of an attack on the user system.
We also have entitlements.
And entitlements,
if you're familiar with them from iOS,
Are things that you add
to your application.
Online?
There's a new spin on them.
So all these capabilities that
your application should have are
off by default and default deny
is a great concept in security.
You want to give your application
the minimal set of privileges
that it needs to get its job done.
So if there's a compromise,
all the potential resources that it
could compromise are not also accessible.
So you opt in and you pick the
capabilities that you want.
And here are just some examples of
The types of entitlements
that are out there.
Things like making a
connection to another machine
Writing to users download folder
where they might store a lot of
their new files and new data.
Things like a user-initiated read.
So when a user decides to
give your application a file,
they can just use the file dialogs.
You don't necessarily have to
give your application full access
to all of the user's files.
Just the files that they want to
give your application at that time.
Things like accessing the
camera or accessing printers.
All right, now let's shift gears and talk
about the financial application,
which has a very
different set of problems.
Financial application has
credentials for a bank account
somewhere or some sort of server.
And also deals with very
sensitive information that needs
to transfer and store securely.
So let's talk about some
storage vulnerabilities.
Again, things like physical theft.
If a device is misplaced, lost,
or stolen, that user might be anxious
about what happened to all that
stuff that they had on there.
On the desktop,
things like file permissions.
Is the user's data being protected
from other users on the system
if it's a shared portable,
for example?
Back to the financial application.
The attacker is going to be
interested in things like user
names and passwords to that bank
account or those bank statements.
Any information they can
get about the person.
The attacker is not going to go around
hunting for users of your application.
But
They're going to be looking for this
kind of information on a device they get.
So what do we have?
So we have strong Unix file permissions.
I'll talk about that a little bit later.
And we have technologies like Keychain,
FileVault, and Data Protection.
Keychain solves a lot of problems
with password management.
How should passwords be
migrated across an install?
On the desktop, Keychain can protect
a user's login items,
their user names, their emails,
their passwords with one password.
It makes it easier for a user to manage
all of their different credentials.
Keychain is also available on iOS.
In Panther, we introduced FileVault which
allowed users to encrypt their
data in an encrypted volume.
This only applied to
their home directory.
So in Lion,
we have the all new file vault
which provides full disk encryption.
So the full volume is encrypted.
So other things like system messages
and global configuration settings or
the applications they have installed
can now also be secured by a user's
password in case their portable is lost.
On iOS we have data protection.
So data protection mitigates other
vulnerabilities on the passcode lock.
So if a device is stolen and
the user has a passcode set,
that protects their data.
But in case there's a vulnerability
that can compromise that,
data protection takes everything a
step further and protects the files on
that device using the user's passcode
and the lock state of that device.
And there are a few
different protection classes.
And data protection was
introduced in iOS 4.
We made some improvements there.
So by default, there's nothing.
And you should avoid this.
In the first protection class
is NS file protection complete.
And you want to always use this when
you're dealing with personal information.
The way it works is that whenever
a device is passcode locked,
data in this protection
class is not accessible.
as well as keychain entries that
are in this data protection class.
They're only accessible when the
user enters their passcode and
they're actively using their device.
This alludes to some new stuff.
We'll get to it in a second.
And then we have this data protection
class that was available for
the keychain after first unlock.
Many of the vulnerabilities that
are out there for a passcode bypass
rely on rebooting the device.
So this protection class,
Is a solution for applications that might
need to function even out of passcode
lock but still need data protection.
After the first time a
user enters their passcode,
data in this protection
class will be available.
But not until then.
Here are some use cases
for data protection.
You should be using this
anywhere where a user might
put their personal information.
Anywhere where you might
have a scratch pad,
where a user might decide
to store a password,
even temporarily.
It should be in this protection class.
To prevent any information leaks,
as well as information from
social networking websites.
In addition, you should be taking
advantage of key chain.
Anywhere where you're
working with credentials,
user names and passwords
and e-mail addresses.
You should be putting them in the
tightest protection class you can.
We have two new protection
classes available in iOS 5.
These are meant to solve
some of the trickier points
with background applications.
The first of these is
complete unless open.
The way it works is you put your
file in this protection class
and you will be able to access it
until you close the file handle.
This is useful if you need to
complete a large transaction
such as a large mail download.
And when you close the file handle,
this will get moved into the
NSProtectionComplete class.
The next one we have is after
first unlock as well for files.
And this is useful for streaming
services and notifications.
These are really the use cases.
They're intended for
background applications.
And for the most part,
you should be using protection complete.
Next, let's talk about file permissions.
So, temporary directories are especially
tricky on a multiuser system.
You have to be very careful and watch
out for things like race conditions.
Opening a file, doing a stat,
or doing a stat and then
opening a file is not secure.
In between that stat and that open,
an attacker could have
switched something out.
In addition, you have to be very careful
with file permissions.
When you leave global
configuration settings on a system,
you want to make sure that
they're not world writable and
that they're in the appropriate
[Transcript missing]
So another thing that you'll
notice in Lion is that we've
tied in file system permissions.
So /, /applications/utilities,
and /library are no longer
writable by the group admin.
This was done to tighten some potential
vulnerabilities that were being created
by some third party installers where
global configuration settings or
system daemons were being installed
into these places and then running
with full root system privileges.
And this created the potential
for privilege escalation from
the admin group ID to root.
And there are some exceptions.
Any role directories that are already
there remain the same as well as caches.
So let's talk about the other side
of this financial application.
Transport.
It needs to securely transmit
information to a server and
securely retrieve information.
Here are some of the goals
of transport security.
You want to make sure that that data
cannot be observed by a passive attacker.
You don't want to send plain text
credentials as well as any personal
information playing over the wire.
You also want to make sure
that your protocol is resistant
against more active attacks,
such as man-in-the-middle attacks,
where somebody might be impersonating
the server that your client thinks
is talking to or vice versa.
and protocols have all
kinds of nuances on them.
Additional things such as replay attacks.
Many of these problems are
solved for you by many of the
APIs available in security framework.
And on Mac OS X secure transport.
These are integrated in
the core system APIs.
So CF Network supports
HTTPS as well as NSURL open.
In Mac OS X and Lion we have some
great innovations here with transforms.
So transforms are a new way of
doing data flow programming.
And these were created as a result of
improvements to our crypto APIs on Lion.
There's been a convergence between iOS
and Mac OS X and some of the common
crypto subsystems are now available.
And the APIs to access them
take advantage of transforms.
And it makes it easier, faster,
and with less code to do
secure cryptography and
secure transport correctly.
In addition,
some data structures have been affected.
In iOS 5,
we've introduced secure transport,
which was previously only
available on Mac OS X.
So before it was difficult
to do secure transport with
transports layer security with TLS over
an arbitrary protocol that wasn't HTTP.
So you had to rely on things like
CF network and NSUR open to use HTTPS.
But in some ways that was limited.
Now you can take advantage of
secure transport on iOS 5 and
it has full support for TLS 1.1,
TLS 1.2, and DTLS for diagrams, for UDP.
So for user interface security,
make sure you take advantage
of quarantine on the desktop.
Because user interface attacks
are in some ways the easiest
and lowest bar for an attacker,
but they're also some of the
most complex problems to solve.
But you can make it difficult
for an attacker to take advantage
of these things with quarantine.
We have a number of code hardening
mechanisms as well as exploit mitigation
technologies built in now into Lion and
iOS that you can take advantage of.
Sandbox.
The app provides excellent solutions
to some of the hardest computer
security problems we solve.
Of giving a user full control over how
their data interacts with different
applications on their system.
and providing an easy way to
build security under the hood.
In addition, we have good technology that
solves some very difficult storage
problems such as what happens to
information in the case of data loss,
physical theft,
as well as API such as keychain.
And users can take
advantage of file vault.
So they don't have to worry
about their information on their
portable if they lose their laptop.
We have data protection for
protecting files on portable devices.
And for transport security,
we have some great new
APIs available online,
as well as iOS 5 now.
So you can do secure communication
without compromising users' information.
Here are some references that
you can check out the website.
You have a secure coding
overview and introduction.
Secure coding practices as well as
references for working with quarantine.
And here are the sessions that
you should really see for some
of the in-depth topics on the
things I've mentioned today.
The app sandbox sessions will tell you
in great detail how the sandbox works
and how you can take advantage of it.
Thank you.